# PowerShell Workflows  

A [Windows PowerShell workflow](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/jj134242.aspx) is a sequence of programmed, connected steps that perform long-running tasks or require the coordination of multiple steps across multiple devices or managed nodes. Workflows lets IT pros and developers author sequences of multidevice management *activities*, or single tasks within a workflow, as workflows. 

By design, workflows can be long-running, repeatable, frequent, parallelizable, interruptible, stoppable, and restartable. They can be suspended and resumed; they can also continue after an unexpected interruption, such as a network outage or computer restart. Follwoing are some of the many benefits of using workflows:

*   Windows PowerShell scripting syntax. Workflows extend PowerShell, which makes it is easy for IT professionals who are already familiar with scripting.
*   Multidevice management. You can simultaneously apply workflow tasks to hundreds of managed nodes. Workflows automatically add common parameters to enable multidevice management scenarios.
*   Running a single task to manage complex, end-to-end processes. You can combine related scripts or commands that act on an entire scenario into a single workflow. Status and progress of activities within the workflow are visible at any time.
*   Automated failure recovery. Workflows survive both planned and unplanned interruptions, such as computer restarts. You can suspend workflow operation, then restart or resume the workflow from the point at which it was suspended. You can author checkpoints as part of your workflow, so that you can resume the workflow from the last persisted task (or checkpoint), instead of restarting the workflow from the beginning.
*   Connection and activity retries. By using workflow common parameters, workflow users can retry connections to managed nodes if network-connection failures occur. Workflow authors can also specify activities that must run again if the activity cannot be completed on one or more managed nodes (for example, if a target computer was offline while the activity was running).
*   Connect and disconnect. Users can connect and disconnect from the computer that is running the workflow, but the workflow remains running. For example, if you are running the workflow and managing the workflow on two different computers, you can log off of or restart the computer from which you are managing the workflow, and monitor workflow operations from another computer (such as a home computer) without interrupting the workflow.
*   Task scheduling. Workflow tasks can be scheduled and then started when specific conditions are met, as with any other Windows PowerShell cmdlet or script.
