# Business Value of DevOps and Infrastructure as Code

[Infrastructure as Code](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-infrastructure-as-code/) (IaC) evolved to solve the problem of *environment drift* in the release pipeline. Without IaC, teams must maintain the settings of individual deployment environments. Over time, each environment becomes a *snowflake*, or a unique configuration that cannot be reproduced automatically. Inconsistency among environments leads to more issues during deployment. With snowflakes, administration and maintenance of infrastructure involves manual processes, which are hard to track and contribute to errors.

*Idempotence* is a principle of Infrastructure as Code. Idempotence is the property where a deployment command always sets the target environment into the same configuration, regardless of the environment’s starting state. Idempotency is achieved by either automatically configuring an existing target or by discarding the existing target and recreating a fresh environment.

With IaC, teams make changes to the environment description and version the configuration model, which is typically in well-documented code formats such as JavaScript Object Notification (JSON). The release pipeline executes the model to configure target environments. If the team needs to make changes, they edit the source, not the target. Traditionally, teams don’t discover infrastructure issues until late in the delivery cycle because they do not deploy the application on a production-like infrastructure until they get to production. IaC enables you to create the automation once and manage multiple configurations introduced by the environments. Doing this allows you to practice it enough to be confident that it will run smoothly when it gets to production.

Infrastructure as Code enables DevOps teams to test applications in production-like environments early in the development cycle. These teams expect to provision multiple test environments reliably and on demand. Infrastructure represented as code can also be validated and tested to prevent common deployment issues. At the same time, the cloud dynamically provisions and tears down environments based on IaC definitions.

Teams that implement IaC can deliver stable environments rapidly and at scale. Teams avoid manual configuration of environments and enforce consistency by representing the desired state of their environments via code. Infrastructure deployments with IaC are repeatable and prevent runtime issues caused by configuration drift or missing dependencies. DevOps teams can work together with a unified set of practices and tools to deliver applications and their supporting infrastructure rapidly, reliably, and at scale.
